---
title: Windows BSoDs
description: Troubleshooting Blue Screens of Death when playing Path of Exile
navigation:
  icon:
seo:
  title: Blue Screen of Death
  description: Troubleshooting Blue Screens of Death when playing Path of Exile
---

::note
This page exclusively pertains to the "Blue Screen of Death" on Windows. It is not applicable to Macs.
::

::tip
A Windows Blue Screen of Death is not a single error; any problem that crashes Windows causes a BSoD.
::

A <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-client/performance/read-small-memory-dump-file" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Windows MiniDump</a> contains information such as the Stop Code from your Blue Screen of Death. Because BSoDs can be caused by missing system files, unstable hardware overclocks, corrupted drivers - and plenty more besides - nobody will be able to find a solution to the problem until they understand _which_ Blue Screen of Death error you're getting. That's where a MiniDump proves to be invaluable.
 
 
## Finding MiniDumps

If any MiniDumps have been created by your computer, you can find them in the following location;

`%SystemRoot%\Minidump`

::tip
Copy & paste the above right into File Explorer's address bar!
::

MiniDumps file names contain the data & time they were created at, and have the `.dmp` file extension. If you find one that has been recently created, excellent - that's just what we need to assist you.

Otherwise, you may need to configure Windows to generate MiniDumps and then wait for the next Blue Screen of Death to occur.
 
 
## Sharing the Diagnostics

Many common hosting sites, such as [Imgur](https://imgur.com) and [Pastebin](https://pastebin.com), do not permit you to upload MiniDumps to them.

Use a cloud storage service which allows you to create links to share uploaded files and folders with others.

Common examples include Google Drive, Proton Drive, Microsoft OneDrive, and iCloud.

Make sure that anyone who has access to the link will be able to view the files - ideally without needing to log into a service which they themselves may not use - and then [Create a Thread in Technical Support](/miscellaneous/other/create-a-thread-in-technical-support) and include the link to your MiniDump.
 
 
## Enabling MiniDump Generation

If your MiniDump folder, most likely located at `C:\Windows\Minidump`, is empty even after a Blue Screen of Death has occurred, then you will need to toggle on MiniDump generation;

::steps{level="4"}
#### Open the Windows Search bar

#### Begin typing "View Advanced System Settings"

#### Click on it when it appears

#### Find the `Start-up and Recovery` section

#### Click on the :kbd{value="Settings..."} button in that section

::tip
Your computer may pause for a moment, but it should recover swiftly.
::

#### Ensure the `Write an event to the system log` box is ticked

#### Ensure `Write debugging information` is set to `Small memory dump (256 KB)`

#### Ensure `Small dump directory:` shows: %SystemRoot%\Minidump

#### Confirm your changes

#### Wait for the new Blue Screen of Death to occur so a Minidump can be created
::

