---
title: Scope of Linux Support
description: Clarifying this website's goal for providing Linux-focused support pages.
navigation:
  icon:
seo:
  title: Scope of Linux-focused Support
  description: Clarifying this website's goal for providing Linux-orientated support pages.
---

Path of Exile officially supports Windows, Xbox, and PlayStation. There is an official macOS client available, although - as of June 2025's Patch 3.26 - the application is not yet ARM-native, and thus continues to be dependent upon Apple's Rosetta 2 software.

There has never been an official game client released for Linux - however, Grinding Gear Games has periodically made changes in patches to address issues encountered when playing Path of Exile on Linux through WINE or its derivatives ([example](https://www.pathofexile.com/forum/view-thread/3732353)).

GGG not officially supporting Linux diminishes the capacity for community-sponsored Linux support efforts.

Below are some questions and answers clarifying the current scope of Linux support on this website.

::accordion

:::accordion-item{label="Does this website focus on ways of playing the Windows client on Linux; e.g. Valve's Proton?" icon="i-lucide-circle-help"}
At present, there are no plans to specifically provide guides for setting up and using the likes of WINE, WINE-based software (e.g. Proton; CrossOver), DXVK, etc. This website has been created by a single person, and existing resources for those tools will do a far better job than could ever be achieved here. It simply doesn't make sense for me to attempt to reinvent the wheel.
:::

:::accordion-item{label="What are some examples of pages in the Linux section - and which are likely to be added in future?" icon="i-lucide-circle-help"}
An example of a Linux page is the [System Information](/linux/gathering-information/system-info) article.

The equivalent main article for this is divided into a dichotomy - Windows users are directed towards creating a DxDiag, and macOS users are asked to generate a System Report. Neither of these are at all suitable for Linux.

Another example of a page in the Linux section is [MTR ON LINUX PAGE LINK GOES HERE].
:::

:::accordion-item{label="What should I do if I use the Windows client in a VM?" icon="i-lucide-circle-help"}
Regardless of if you use GPU-passthrough - when you are using the Windows client in a Windows environment (after a fashion...), you should refer to the main support pages and follow the advice targeting the Windows client.
:::

:::accordion-item{label="Why do you not call it GNU/Linux, or some derivative of same?" icon="i-lucide-circle-help"}
My goal when communicating is to phrase things in a way that is likely to be understood by the greatest possible proportion of readers.  I have a good-faith belief that everyone knows what I refer to when saying "Linux", and that any alternative phrasing would be comparatively less well understood.
:::
::