---
title: Server Connection
description: Testing your connection to a Path of Exile server.
navigation:
  icon:
seo:
  title: Server Connection
  description: Testing your connection to a Path of Exile server.
---

## Determine the MTR target

This guide can be followed for testing your connection to an authentication server, a web server, an instance server, or more besides. Before running any tests, we need to determine what _to_ test.

::accordion

:::accordion-item{label="Not able to access their website? Click here." icon="i-lucide-circle-help"}
When you see REPLACEME in the next section of the article, use `pathofexile.com`
:::

:::accordion-item{label="Having difficulty installing or updating the game? Click here." icon="i-lucide-circle-help"}
When you see REPLACEME in the next section of the article, use `patchcdn.pathofexile.com`
:::

:::accordion-item{label="Unable to log into the game client? Click here." icon="i-lucide-circle-help"}
What you should use in place of REPLACEME in the next section of the guide depends on the gateway you're trying to use. Please refer to the table below.

::tip
They all begin with _three letters_ followed by _two numbers_. Don't mistake the letter `l` for the number `1`.
::

| Gateway | Use in place of REPLACEME   |
|---|-----------------------------|
| Amsterdam | `ams01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Auckland | `akl01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Australia | `mel01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| California | `sjc01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Canada | `tor01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Frankfurt | `fra01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Japan | `tok01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| London | `lon01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Milan | `mil01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Moscow | `mos01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Paris | `par01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| São Paulo | `sao01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Singapore | `sng01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| South Africa | `zaf01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Texas | `dal01.login.pathofexile.com` |
| Washington, D.C. | `wdc01.login.pathofexile.com` |
:::

:::accordion-item{label="Experiencing lag or disconnections while playing? Click here." icon="i-lucide-circle-help"}
Each time you leave town, or enter a map, you are connecting to an instance server. GGG can have dozens - or even _more_ - instance servers housed within the data centre for each gateway.

Helpfully, your game client's [log file](/information/log-file) will tell you the IP address of the server you have connected to - and you can use this for the test. You want to open LatestClient.txt, scroll all the way down to the bottom, and find the most recent line that looks like the following;

> 2025/07/03 01:33:28 43034102 ca3a6b37 [INFO Client 5644] Connecting to instance server at 69.41.173.237:6112.

Now, that last bit of punctuation is a colon, not a period - and what follows that is the port number, which isn't a part of the IP address. You want everything prior to the colon, which in this example would be `69.41.173.237`. The test may not work if you include the " **:** 6112 ".

::tip
Use Ctrl F / CMD F to search the file for "instance server" to make it quicker to find what you're looking for.
::

:::

::

## Install MTR and run the test

::tabs{.w-full}
  :::tabs-item{icon="i-lucide-grid-2x2" label="Windows"}

### Download WinMTR

    ::steps{level="4"}
#### Check whether MTR is installed

    ::


### Run WinMTR

  :::
  :::tabs-item{icon="i-lucide-apple" label="macOS"}

    ::note
This guide assumes you have Homebrew installed. See [here](/miscellaneous/mac/homebrew-install) for a guide on how to install Homebrew.
    ::

    ::steps{level="4"}
#### Check whether MTR is installed

  ```bash [Terminal]
  mtr -v
  ```

        ::note
This will either show you the version number of MTR installed on your system, or it will show `mtr: command not found`.
        ::

#### Install MTR

        ::tip
Skip this step if the previous step showed you a version number; e.g. `mtr 0.9.5`. 
        ::

  ```bash [Terminal]
  brew install mtr
  ```

#### Run MTR

  ```bash [Terminal]
  sudo mtr REPLACEME
  ```
        ::note
You will be prompted to enter your password to give MTR the permissions it requires to run.
        ::

#### Copy the information

::warning
The number in the `Snt` column will slowly increment. Wait until it reaches **500**.
::

In the menu bar, click on `Edit` and then `Select All`. Then click `Edit` again, and click `Copy`.

#### Paste it into a forum post

Now that you've copied the test, you can paste it into a forum post!

::tip
First describe your issue, then click on the forum's `Quote` button, and _then_ paste your MTR results.
::

    ::
  :::
::